Add Vault guides (#345)
lukso-network/docs: docs/guides/vault/edit-vault-data.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Edit Vault Data'
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Edit Vault Data

> This guide will teach you how to set data to an **[LSP9Vault](../../standards/smart-contracts/lsp9-vault.md)** contract. Any data can be attached to the vault and since it supports **[LSP1-UniversalReceiver](../../standards/generic-standards/lsp1-universal-receiver.md)** standard, we will be setting the [**Universal Receiver Delegate**](../../standards/smart-contracts/lsp1-universal-receiver-delegate-vault.md) address inside the storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will teach you how to set data to an **[LSP9Vault](../../standards/smart-contracts/lsp9-vault.md)** contract. Any data can be attached to the vault, and since it supports the **[LSP1-UniversalReceiver](../../standards/generic-standards/lsp1-universal-receiver.md)** standard, we will set the [**Universal Receiver Delegate**](../../standards/smart-contracts/lsp1-universal-receiver-delegate-vault.md) address inside the storage.
```

## Setting Data (Universal Receiver Delegate)

> The default implementation of the **Universal Receiver Delegate** of the Vault, that we are going to deploy will register the assets received to the storage and and will remove them when their balance equals 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default implementation of the **Universal Receiver Delegate** of the Vault that we will deploy will register the assets received to the storage and remove them when their balance equals 0.
```

### Deploying Universal Receiver Delegate (URD)

:::info

The **Universal Profile** and the **Vault** don't use the same implementation of the Universal Receiver Delegate.
:::

```typescript title="Deploying the Universal Receiver Delegate of the vault"
import Web3 from 'web3';
import LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/artifacts/LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault.json';

const web3 = new Web3('https://rpc.l16.lukso.network');

const PRIVATE_KEY = '0x...'; // your EOA private key
const myEOA = web3.eth.accounts.privateKeyToAccount(PRIVATE_KEY);

// create an instance
const myURDVault = new web3.eth.Contract(LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault.abi);

// deploy the universal receiver delegate Vault contract
await myURDVault
  .deploy({
    data: LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault.bytecode
  })
  .send({
    from: myEOA.address,
    gas: 5_000_000,
    gasPrice: '1000000000',
  });
```

### Setting the URD address in the storage

> The owner of the Vault could be an **EOA**, or any **other contract**. In our case we will suppose that the owner of the Vault is a [Universal Profile](../../standards/universal-profile/introduction.md) that is controlled by a Key Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Vault's owner could be an **EOA** or any **other smart contract**. In our case, we will suppose that the Vault's owner is a [Universal Profile](../../standards/universal-profile/introduction.md) that is controlled by a Key Manager.
```

const myVaultAddress = "0x.." // address of the Vault
const myURDAddress = "0x.." // address of the URD of the Vault 

// create an instance of the Vault
const myVault = new web3.eth.Contract(LSP9Vault.abi, myVaultAddress);

// create an instance of the UP
const myUP = new web3.eth.Contract(UniversalProfile.abi, myUniversalProfileAddress);

// encode setData Payload on the Vault
const setDataPayload = await myLSP9Vault.methods[
    "setData(bytes32,bytes)"
  ](URD_DATA_KEY, myURDAddress).encodeABI();  // Any other information can be stored here

// encode execute Payload on the UP
const executePayload = await myUP.methods.execute(
    0, // OPERATION CALL
    myVaultAddress,
    0, // value to transfer
    setDataPayload
    )
    .encodeABI();

// getting the Key Manager address from UP
const myKeyManagerAddress = await myUP.methods.owner().call();

// create an instance of the KeyManager
let myKM = new web3.eth.Contract(LSP6KeyManager.abi, myKeyManagerAddress);

// execute the executePayload on the KM
await myKM.methods.execute(executePayload).send({
    from: myEOA.address,
    gasLimit: 600_000,
});
```

## Reading Data

> The **LSP9Vault** contract is an **ERC725** contract, so it shares the same way to read data as Universal Profiles and other types of ERC725 contracts by using **[erc725.js](../../tools/erc725js/getting-started.md)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **LSP9Vault** contract is an **ERC725** contract, so it shares the same way to read data as Universal Profiles and other ERC725 contracts by using **[erc725.js](../../tools/erc725js/getting-started.md)**.
```

> You can refer to this **[previous guide](../universal-profile/read-profile-data.md)** to learn how to **fetch data** (received assets, issued assets, etc ..), you will need to replace the address of the **Universal Profile** with the **Vault's** address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer to this **[previous guide](../universal-profile/read-profile-data.md)** to learn how to **fetch data** (received assets, issued assets, etc.). Please note, that you will need to replace the address of the **Universal Profile** with the **Vault's** address.
```

---
sidebar_label: 'Edit Vault Data'
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Edit Vault Data

> This guide will teach you how to setData to an **[LSP9Vault](../../standards/smart-contracts/lsp9-vault.md)** contract. Any data can be attached to the vault and since it supports **[LSP1-UniversalReceiver](../../standards/generic-standards/lsp1-universal-receiver.md)** standard, we will be setting the [**Universal Receiver Delegate**](../../standards/smart-contracts/lsp1-universal-receiver-delegate-vault.md) address inside the storage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will teach you how to set data on an **[LSP9Vault](../../standards/smart-contracts/lsp9-vault.md)** contract. Any data can be attached to the vault and since it supports **[LSP1-UniversalReceiver](../../standards/generic-standards/lsp1-universal-receiver.md)** standard, we will be setting the [**Universal Receiver Delegate**](../../standards/smart-contracts/lsp1-universal-receiver-delegate-vault.md) address inside the storage.
```

## Setting Data (Universal Receiver Delegate)

The default implementation of the **Universal Receiver Delegate** of the Vault, that we are going to deploy will register the assets received to the storage and and will remove them when their balance equals 0.

### Deploying Universal Receiver Delegate (URD)

:::info

The **Universal Profile** and the **Vault** don't use the same implementation of the Universal Receiver Delegate.
:::

> ```typescript title="Deploying the universal receiver delegate of the vault"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```typescript title="Deploying the Universal Receiver Delegate of the vault"
```

import LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/artifacts/LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault.json';

> 

Reviewer 3: As for the create vault comment, could you also add the web3 import, etc. here so we can simply copy / paste this code snippet and it works?

// create an instance

> let myURDVault = new web3.eth.Contract(LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault.abi, {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const myURDVault = new web3.eth.Contract(LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault.abi, {
```

I think you can move the gas params to the deploy function bellow

  gas: 5_000_000,
  gasPrice: '1000000000',
});

// deploy the universal receiver delegate Vault contract
await myURDVault
  .deploy({
    data: LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegateVault.bytecode
  })
  .send({
    from: myEOA.address,
  });
```

### Setting the URD address in the storage

> The owner of the Vault could be an **EOA**, or any **other contract**. In our case we will suppose that the owner of the Vault is a Universal Profile that is controlled by a Key Manager.

Reviewer 3: maybe you can add a link on "Universal Profile" to: `/standards/universal-profile/introduction`

```typescript title="Setting the URD address in the storage"
import constants from "@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/constants.js";
import LSP9Vault from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/artifacts/LSP9Vault.json';
import UniversalProfile from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/artifacts/UniversalProfile.json';
import LSP6KeyManager from '@lukso/lsp-smart-contracts/artifacts/LSP6KeyManager.json';

const URD_DATA_KEY = constants.ERC725YKeys.LSP0.LSP1UniversalReceiverDelegate;
const myUniversalProfileAddress = "0x.." // address of the UP
const myVaultAddress = "0x.." // address of the Vault
const myURDAddress = "0x.." // address of the URD of the Vault 

// create an instance of the Vault

> let myVault = new web3.eth.Contract(LSP9Vault.abi, myVaultAddress);

Reviewer 3: if you don't reassign this variable, use a `const` instead of `let`

// create an instance of the UP

> let myUP = new web3.eth.Contract(UniversalProfile.abi, myUniversalProfileAddress);

Reviewer 3: same here

```suggestion
const myUP = new web3.eth.Contract(UniversalProfile.abi, myUniversalProfileAddress);
```

// encode setData Payload on the Vault
const setDataPayload = await myLSP9Vault.methods[
    "setData(bytes32,bytes)"
  ](URD_DATA_KEY, myURDAddress).encodeABI();  // Any other information can be stored here

// encode execute Payload on the UP
const executePayload = await myUP.methods.execute(
    0, // OPERATION CALL
    myVaultAddress,
    0, // value to transfer
    setDataPayload
    )
    .encodeABI();

// getting the Key Manager address from UP
const myKeyManagerAddress = await myUP.methods.owner().call();

// create an instance of the KeyManager
let myKM = new web3.eth.Contract(LSP6KeyManager.abi, myKeyManagerAddress);

// execute the executePayload on the KM
await myKM.methods.execute(executePayload).send({
    from: myEOA.address,
    gasLimit: 600_000,

>     });

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  });
```

```

## Reading Data

> The **LSP9Vault** contract is an **ERC725** alike contract, it shares the same way to read data with Universal Profiles and other types of ERC725 contracts through **[erc725.js](../../tools/erc725js/getting-started.md)**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **LSP9Vault** contract is an **ERC725** contract, so shares the same way to read data as Universal Profiles and other types of ERC725 contracts by using **[erc725.js](../../tools/erc725js/getting-started.md)**.
```

> The **LSP9Vault** contract is an **ERC725** contract, so shares the same way to read data as Universal Profiles and other types of ERC725 contracts by using **[erc725.js](../../tools/erc725js/getting-started.md)**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **LSP9Vault** contract is an **ERC725** contract, so it shares the same way to read data as Universal Profiles and other types of ERC725 contracts by using **[erc725.js](../../tools/erc725js/getting-started.md)**.
```

---
sidebar_label: 'Edit Vault Data'
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Edit Vault Data

This guide will teach you how to setData to an **[LSP9Vault](../../standards/smart-contracts/lsp9-vault.md)** contract. Any data can be attached to the vault and since it supports **[LSP1-UniversalReceiver](../../standards/generic-standards/lsp1-universal-receiver.md)** standard, we will be setting the [**Universal Receiver Delegate**](../../standards/smart-contracts/lsp1-universal-receiver-delegate-vault.md) address inside the storage.

## Setting Data (Universal Receiver Delegate)

> The default implementation of the **Universal Receiver Delegate** of the Vault, that we are going to deploy will register the assets received to the storage and removes them on a balance equal 0.

Reviewer 4: I think I would probably say "and will remove them when their balance equals 0"

// create an instance of the UP
let myUP = new web3.eth.Contract(UniversalProfile.abi, myUniversalProfileAddress);

// encode setData Payload on the Vault
const setDataPayload = await myLSP9Vault.methods[
    "setData(bytes32,bytes)"
  ](URD_DATA_KEY, myURDAddress).encodeABI();  // Any other information can be stored here

// encode execute Payload on the UP
const executePayload = await myUP.methods.execute(
    0, // OPERATION CALL
    myVaultAddress,
    0, // value to transfer
    setDataPayload
    )
    .encodeABI();

// getting the Key Manager address from UP
const myKeyManagerAddress = await myUP.methods.owner().call();

// create an instance of the KeyManager
let myKM = new web3.eth.Contract(LSP6KeyManager.abi, myKeyManagerAddress);

// execute the executePayload on the KM
await myKM.methods.execute(executePayload).send({
    from: myEOA.address,
    gasLimit: 600_000,
    });
```

## Reading Data

The **LSP9Vault** contract is an **ERC725** alike contract, it shares the same way to read data with Universal Profiles and other types of ERC725 contracts through **[erc725.js](../../tools/erc725js/getting-started.md)**.

> You can refer to this **[previous guide](../universal-profile/read-profile-data.md)** to learn how to **fetch data** (received assets, issued assets, etc ..), you will need to replace the address of the **Universal Profile** with the address of the **Vault**.

Reviewer 4: I think I would probably switch from "with the address of the **Vault**" to "with the **Vault's** address. @CallumGrindle  what do you think?

Reviewer 2: I think either way works here :)
